Vanilla macOS on T430, almost perfectly with High Sierra 10.13.1


Credits to ThiagoSchetini & Rehabman 


#### WORKING =)
        Intel Hyperthread (8 Threads) - Nope, I use the i5 variant.
        Intel TurboBoost (up to 3.2 Ghz)
        Intel SpeedStep 
        CPU HW Monitor (temps, clock and power) 
        RAM DDR3 at 1600mhz
        Intel HD4000 1536MB
        Brightness (FULL Range + Fn Brightness Keys) <- Test
        Display Port Out FullHD + Audio <- Test
        Battery Status
        WiFi (I use an FIND_MODEL Atheros Intel a/b/g/n)
        Ethernet
        Sleep (with both working sleep leds on/off) <- Test
        Display turns on automatically on wake/instant wake	<- Test
        USB 3.0 Full Speed
        Audio ALC269 (Everything works, even after sleep) <- Test
        Webcam + Mic <- Test?
        Keyboard + TouchPad <- switch mapping of < and $.


#### NOT WORKING ...
        On Shutdown, need to remove USB 3.0 devices otherwise system will restart (USB 2.0 is ok!)
        SSD Trim (disabled. not recommended for OEM SSD’s on MacOSX) 
        VGA output (apple doesn’t have support)
        SD Card Reader <- never tested.
		No compatible bluetooth hardware. =/



#### Creating the installer
	- You'll need thumbdrive of at least 8 GB, jHFS+ formatted.
	
    - Use Unibeast to create the installer. Select UEFI and no ATI/nVidia.
    
	- After creating the USB Installer go to EFI/CLOVER/drivers64UEFI/
		Remove everything and put the 4 files this repository (add the apfs.efi if need be)
	
	- Put any kexts in EFI/CLOVER/kexts/10.12 etc. into ./other/ and copy the kexts from this
	  repository into ./other/ as well.
		- Thus removing all kexts folders except ./other/


#### Install macOS
    - You'll need a mouse and external keyboard plugged in (for the install process).
    
	- If you get stuck on boot disable 'InjectIntel' graphics.

##### Install on Fusion Drive (Optional)
If you have installed an SSD and a HDD in your T430, you can gain the advantages of using a fusion drive. Follow these steps to install on a fusion drive rather than a "regular" drive.

	- Setup Fusion drive according to guides on the internet.
	
	- Install macOS on external HDD.
    
	- Restore HDD installation to Fusion Drive with Disk Utility on the install disk.
    
	- *Alternatively* (never got this to work) do `/Volumes/"Image Volume/Install macOS High Sierra.app"
    	/Contents/Resources/startosinstall --volume the_target_volume--converttoapfs NO --agreetolicense`
    	from Terminal instead of regular install.
    
	- Boot into new installation on Fusion Drive.

	
#### Show hidden files (optional, but helpful)
	- After first boot, on Terminal:
    	defaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles YES
		killAll Finder


#### Install Clover

	- Install “clover.pkg” (found in repo/tools folder)
    	Check 'Install for UEFI Booting Only'
		This will automatically check 'Install Clover in the ESP'
		Check Drivers 64 UEFI (IMPORTANT! Do only check OsxAptioFix2Drv-64)

	- Now you can remove your Installer Pen Drive (you have boot)


#### Configure EFI/Clover
	- config.plist: use the one from this repository
        take from low-resolution-config.plist folder for 1366x768 display
		take from high-resolution-config.plist folder for 1600x900 or + display

	- /drivers64UEFI
		use the folder from this repository (with 4 files only!)

	- /kexts
		Remove everything except other (leave it empty)

	- /ACPI/patched:
		(OPTION 1 Difficult - but recommended) Make your own SSDT and DSDT:
			-> First you'll need the vanilla .aml generated by your UEFI (BIOS)
				Enter in the clover boot menu and press F4 and FN+F4
				That’s all. It’s gonna be on EFI/CLOVER/ACPI/origin

			-> Them disassembly correctly only the DSDT.aml and DSDT’s.aml (0, 1, 2 etc…)
				please, don’t open directly on MacIASL!
				use iasl on terminal (look at tools folder/iasl howTo.txt)
			
			-> patch your DSDT.dsl with all the code from file “…-dsdt-patch.txt” using MacIASL
				it includes only the necessary code to Thinkpad T430
				* choose low resolution for 1366 x 762
				* choose high resolution for 1600 x 900 or +

			-> manually last patch for screen turn on after wake (Warning! It’s a manual change)
				on your .dsl find for “Return (WAKI)”
				On the last two method calls there is:
					\_SB.PCI0.LPC.EC.LED(Zero, 0x80)
    					\_SB.PCI0.LPC.EC.LED(0x07, 0x00)
				change for (carefull with identation, must be perfect):
					\_SI._SST (One)
        				\_GPE._L1D ()
			
			-> Save from MacIASL as binary (.aml) and paste on ACPI/patched inside clover UEFI

			-> Generate your own SSDT (Power Management for your processor)
				https://www.tonymacx86.com/threads/quick-guide-to-generate-a-ssdt-for-cpu-power-management.177456/
			-> Put the SSDT.aml on the same folder of DSDT: ACPI/patched inside clover UEFI
			

		(OPTION 2 Easy One - Not recommended) take my patched files .aml:
	 		->take ONLY the .aml files from “pached ACPI dsl’s” folder 
				* choose only one SSDT.aml: “i5 3230M” or “i7 3632QM”
				* if you have another processor make your own SSDT or leave it empty

			-> Put the .aml files on the folder: ACPI/patched inside clover UEFI

#### Kexts

	- Make a beckup of AppleBacklight.kext (Brightness)
		Why? for future updates you need to reinstall the original and then reinstall the pached

		** Warning!, the backlight kext inside kexts folder is patched for T430 brightness full range control

	- Now, install all the kexts from the folder using “Kext Utility.app” (look inside tools folder)
	
#### Voodoo Extra Files (for Keyboard)

	- Go to the voodoo's' folder with the terminal
		sudo cp org.rehabman.voodoo.driver.Daemon.plist /Library/LaunchDaemons
		sudo cp VoodooPS2Daemon /usr/bin


#### Restart at get audio working

	- After restarting you need to flush the kexts:
		sudo touch /System/Library/Extensions && sudo kextcache -u /
	- Restart again to hear the audio working!

	- Repeat the process if nescessary
		sudo touch /System/Library/Extensions && sudo kextcache -u /
	- Restart Again!
	
	* If you keep having problems, try disabling the option 'No Cache' in config.plist and restart again.	


#### HWMONITOR
	- Put the HWMONITOR from tools folder in Applications and open it, you should read power, clock, and temps of your CPU


#### Disable Hibernation
	-> Disable Hibernation and related options
        sudo pmset -a hibernatemode 0
        sudo rm /var/vm/sleepimage
        sudo mkdir /var/vm/sleepimage
        sudo pmset -a standby 0
        sudo pmset -a autopoweroff 0
		
**And that's it! You're done. Hopefully.** =)


ABOUT THIS DSDT CODE 

    -> ThiagoSchetini modified some original patches from Rehabman:

			[modified] Lenovo X220 
				-> added T430 sleep leds
				-> cleaned extra code

			[modified] Brightness fix (HD3000/HD4000)
				-> included FN brightness keys (T430 only) 

			[usb] USB3_PRW 0x0D (instant wake)
				-> to have sleep working (original Rehabman code)

			[audio] Audio Layout 28
				-> to work with the ALC269 kext (original Rehabman code)

			[sys] IRQ Fix
				-> to enable audio (original Rehabman code)

			[igpu] Low Resolution (or High)
				-> to enable HDMI display port audio out

			[manual] Code change on .dsl to turn on screen automatically on wake


COMPLETE KEXT FLUSH (recomended after remove a kext)

	-> repair permissions:
        sudo /usr/libexec/repair_packages --repair --standard-pkgs --volume /
	
    -> rebuild kext cache
        sudo rm -r /System/Library/Caches/com.apple.kext.caches
        sudo touch /System/Library/Extensions
        sudo kextcache -update-volume /

	-> rebuild cache short form
        sudo touch /System/Library/Extensions && sudo kextcache -u /


GENERATE VANILLA CONFIG.PLIST (if you need it)

	on /usr/local/bin/clover-genconfig > config.plist
	execute and take the xml

HOW TO FLASH T430 BIOS (if you want to install an 1300AC WiFi …)

https://github.com/bibanon/Coreboot-ThinkPads/wiki/xx30-BIOS-Whitelist-Removal

### Updating from 10.13.0 to 10.13.1
	- Downloaded full macOS 10.13.1 from App Store.
	- Copied kexts and apfs.efi to their respective places in EFI.
	- Installed macOS 10.13.1
	- Flushed kext cache to get audio working again.
		sudo touch /System/Library/Extensions && sudo kextcache -u /
	- Remove kexts from EFI.
	- Reboot and voilà. =)
